---
layout: post-entry
title: Ruby, Jekyll, and a redesign
---
<p class="post-meta">13 December, 2012</p>
<p class="intro-paragraph">Two weeks ago I started to teach myself Ruby. If I recall correctly, this is my third significant attempt at learning a programming language, previously flirting with PHP.</p>
<p>Despite still working with PHP on a day to day basis, mainly via WordPress, learning Ruby appeals to me more. Despite my brain's reluctance to pick up the fundamentals of programming, I've picked up a scattered knowledge of basic PHP simply by looking at it over such a long period of time. But it's minimal, weak, and messy portion of knowledge.</p>
<p>Along with the encouragement of developers who I have plenty of respect for regularly praising the language and community around it, Ruby also appeals to me more because it means starting afresh. With Ruby, my mind's a clean slate, and I'm approaching it in that fashion. But I'm also learning from my mistakes in the past.</p>
<h2>You've got to be making something</h2>
<p>My previous attempts to teach myself PHP were based around learning via theory - books, or very specific tutorials online. There was no overall target to aim towards.</p>
<p>This time, I've got an app that I'd love to build. Enough of a challenging concept to get me passionate about making it, but definitely still achievable.</p>
<p>I'll also be embracing frameworks this time around. I've looked at both Rails and Sinatra, deciding that Sinatra is probably more suited to a fairly simple app like the one I'll be making.</p>
<p>Nonetheless, the perfectionist in my doesn't feel fully comfortable solely diving into a framework. I've also finally signed up to <a href="http://teamtreehouse.com/" title="Treehouse">Treehouse</a>, and started the programming/Ruby courses on there, to gain an overall knowledge on the fundementals, and <strong>how things actually work</strong>. Overall, I think this will be the perfect mix of <em>making</em> and <em>learning</em>. The ultimate hope is that the two will crossover beautifully further on down the line.</p>
<p>Soon after looking at Ruby, I also downloaded and played with <a href="http://jekyllrb.com/" title="Jekyll">Jekyll</a>, a static site generator. After spending an afternoon evening with it, looking at its glorious liquid markup and lightweight file structure, I'd already decided that WordPress (which I'm still a huge fan of for various project types) now feels strongly out of place for the personal home of a web designer who's perfectly comfortably working around files and code. Jekyll is small, quick, but surprisingly powerful. I love it.</p>
<p>I couldn't shake the thought of dropping WordPress and embracing Jekyll, so I did exactly that. And with that decision, naturally, came a redesign. I'd genuinely tried to make a resolution to stick with the same design for an extended period of time, but I've had a change of heart with this opinion recently. I'm not a prolific blogger with a huge audience who could potentially be frustrated with regular design changes, I'm a small fish, so for all its disadvantages, it does mean that I can still treat my online home as a playground. Regardless, I'm chuffed with this new look. My redesigns may occur a little too often, but looking back, I'd say each one has been an improvement on the last.</p>
<h2>P.S. It's a work in progress</h2>
<p>So ignore the fact my sidebar mini profile lazily disappears via <code class="language-markup">display: none</code> at a smaller viewport. It's almost 1:30am and I can't quite gather the energy to solve that yet! I also need to add some retina friendliness on a few icons and the project images. Critique or bug reports about anything else via <a href="https://twitter.com/jack_l_smith">Twitter</a> or <a href="mailto:jack@designedbyjack.com">email</a> is certainly welcome though. </p>  